RHDEVDOCS-4740: Added new features for pipelines 1.9 RN (#54491)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-release-notes-1-9.adoc

* With this update, you can configure the webhook port number when defining a trigger.

* This update supports trigger `eventID` to be used as input to `TriggerBinding`.

* This update supports validation and rotation of certificates for the `clusterinterceptor` custom resource definition. 

[id="cli-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== CLI

* This update adds support for a pipeline run with minimal embedded status. 

* This update supports showing annotations in the `describe` command.

* This update supports showing pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pr describe` command.

* This update adds flags to provide pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pipeline start` command.

* This update adds the status of workspaces in the `describe` command of a task and pipeline.

* This update adds a check for the maximum usage of bundle resources in the pipeline controller.

* This update adds a new flag `--ignore-running-pipelinerun`, which ignores the deletion of `TaskRun` associated with `PipelineRun`.

* With this update, you can use the parameters `qps` and `bursts` to configure the Tekton controller performance.

> * This update makes the Z shell (Zsh) completion feature usable without generating any files.

Reviewer: that's humm not a feature but yeah sure :-D

Author: if this feature not needed, we can remove it

* This update adds a new driver to support the Gitea software package.

* With this update, you can reference a remote pipeline in the `pipelineRef:` object using annotations.

* With this update, you can auto-configure new GitHub repositories with {pac}, which sets up a namespace and creates a custom resource for your repository.

* This update provides metrics for pipeline runs with provider information in the user namespace.

* This update provides the following enhancements for the `tkn-pac` plugin:
** Detects running pipelines correctly 
** Fixes showing duration when there is no failure completion time
** Shows an error snippet and highlights the error regular expression pattern in the `tkn-pac describe` command
** Adds the `use-real-time` switch to the `tkn-pac ls` and `tkn-pac describe` commands
** Imports the `tkn-pac` logs documentation
** Shows `pipelineruntimeout` as a failure in the `tkn-pac ls` and `tkn-pac describe` commands.
** Show a specific pipeline run failure with the `--target-pipelinerun` option.
      

> * With this update, you can view the errors for your pipeline run in the form of a VS code comment or a small snippet in the GitHub checks. 

Reviewer: VS code comment?

Reviewer 2: :thinking: 

the release note is like below

```
If there are any errors for your pipelinerun you can now see a display of those errors and addition of a small snippet into the github checks or as vcs comment
```

> * With this update, {pac} detects errors inside the tasks if they are of a simple format and adds those tasks as annotations in GitHub. This update is part of an alpha preview feature.

Reviewer: optionally can detects errors

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * cicd/pipelines/op-release-notes.adoc
:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="op-release-notes-1-9_{context}"]
= Release notes for {pipelines-title} General Availability 1.9

With this update, {pipelines-title} General Availability (GA) 1.9 is available on {product-title} 4.11 and later versions.

[id="new-features-1-9_{context}"]
== New features

In addition to the fixes and stability improvements, the following sections highlight what is new in {pipelines-title} 1.9.

[id="pipelines-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== Pipelines

> * With this update, you can specify pipelines parameters and results in arrays and object dictionary forms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can specify pipeline parameters and results in arrays and object dictionary forms.
```

> * This update provides support for Container Storage Interface (CSI) and projected volume for your workspace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This update provides support for Container Storage Interface (CSI) and projected volumes for your workspace.
```

> * This update supports the matrix feature to organize tasks in a pipeline. For example, you can define a single task in your pipeline which executes multiple times based on the matrix parameters. This update is part of an alpha preview feature.

Reviewer 3: "alpha preview"

Is this the correct terminology? developer preview maybe?

Author: @Preeticp @concaf , need your input here. can we replace alpha preview with developer preview?

Reviewer 4: @rupalibehera @piyush-garg @ppitonak can you weigh in on this, please? I would say yes.

Author: Changed to developer preview

Reviewer 5: If I understand it correctly, customers need to set `enable-api-fields: alpha` in TektonConfig which makes their installation unsupportable. I'm not sure if we should even mention it

Author: @vdemeester could you please provide your input here? do we need to remove this point altogether?

Reviewer 6: ah you are right @ppitonak, this is still in alpha, so, we could not mention it indeed.

Author: Removed this point @ppitonak @vdemeester

> * With this update, you can specify the `stdoutConfig` and `stderrConfig` parameters when defining pipeline steps. Defining these parameters helps to capture standard output and standard error associated with steps to local files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can specify the `stdoutConfig` and `stderrConfig` parameters when defining pipeline steps. Defining these parameters helps to capture standard output and standard error, associated with steps, to local files.
```

Reviewer 3: I found this sentence hard to parse at the end

* With this update, you can add variables in the `steps[].onError` event handler, for example, `$(params.CONTINUE)`.

* With this update, you can use the output from the `finally` task in the `PipelineResults` definition. For example, `$(finally.<pipelinetask-name>.result.<result-name>)`, where `<pipelinetask-name>` denotes the pipeline task name and `<result-name>` denotes the result name.

* This update supports task-level resource requirements for a task run.

> * With this update, you do not need to recreate parameters that are shared based on their name between a pipeline and the defined tasks. This update is part of an alpha preview feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, you do not need to recreate parameters that are shared, based on their names, between a pipeline and the defined tasks. This update is part of an alpha preview feature.
```

Reviewer 3: or move the "based on their names" to after the "between a pipeline and the defined tasks"

* This update adds support for remote resolution, such as built-in git, cluster, bundle, and hub resolvers.

[id="triggers-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== Triggers

> * This update adds the `Interceptor` CRD to define `NamespacedInterceptor`. You can use `NamespacedInterceptor` in the kind section of interceptors reference in triggers or in the `EventListener` specification.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This update adds the `Interceptor` CRD to define `NamespacedInterceptor`. You can use `NamespacedInterceptor` in the `kind` section of interceptors reference in triggers or in the `EventListener` specification.
```

* This update enables `CloudEvents`.

* With this update, you can configure the webhook port number when defining a trigger.

> * This update supports trigger `eventID` to be used as input to `TriggerBinding`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This update supports using trigger `eventID` as input to `TriggerBinding`.
```

* This update supports validation and rotation of certificates for the `ClusterInterceptor` server. 
** Triggers perform certificate validation for core interceptors and rotate a new certificate to `ClusterInterceptor` when its certificate expires. 

[id="cli-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== CLI 

* This update supports showing annotations in the `describe` command.

> * This update supports showing pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pr describe` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This update supports showing pipeline, tasks, and timeout in the `pr describe` command.
```

> * This update adds flags to provide pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pipeline start` command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* This update adds flags to provide pipeline, tasks, and timeout in the `pipeline start` command.
```

* This update adds the `timestamps` flag to show logs with a timestamp.

* This update adds a new flag `--ignore-running-pipelinerun`, which ignores the deletion of `TaskRun` associated with `PipelineRun`.

* This update adds support for experimental commands. This update also adds experimental subcommands, `sign` and `verify` to the `tkn` CLI tool. 

* This update makes the Z shell (Zsh) completion feature usable without generating any files.

* This update introduces a new CLI tool called `opc`. It is anticipated that an upcoming release will replace the `tkn` CLI tool with `opc`.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
* The new CLI tool `opc` is a Technology Preview feature.
* `opc` will be a replacement for `tkn` with additional {pipelines-title} specific features, which do not necessarily fit in `tkn`.
====

[id="operator-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== Operator

* With this update, you can install {pac} as a separate component, not as a part of `TektonAddon`. You can configure {pac} in the `TektonConfig` CRD.

* With this update, you can also modify {pac} configurations in the `TektonConfig` CRD.

> * With this update, if you disable the developer perspective, the Operator does not install devconsole related custom resources.

Reviewer 3: Maybe expand "devconsole" to "developer console"?

* This update includes `ClusterTriggerBinding` support for Bitbucket Server and Bitbucket Cloud and helps you to reuse a `TriggerBinding` across your entire cluster.

[id="resolver-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== Resolvers

:FeatureName: Resolvers
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

* With this update, you can configure pipeline resolvers in the `TektonConfig` CRD. You can enable or disable these pipeline resolvers:  `enable-bundles-resolver`, `enable-cluster-resolver`, `enable-git-resolver`, and `enable-hub-resolver`.
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline: 
    enable-bundles-resolver: true
    enable-cluster-resolver: true
    enable-git-resolver: true
    enable-hub-resolver: true
...
----
+

> You can also provide resolver specific configurations in `TektonConfig`. For example, you can define the following fields in the map[string]string format to set configurations for individual resolvers:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also provide resolver specific configurations in `TektonConfig`. For example, you can define the following fields in the `map[string]string` format to set configurations for individual resolvers:
```

+ 
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
apiVersion: operator.tekton.dev/v1alpha1
kind: TektonConfig
metadata:
  name: config
spec:
  pipeline: 
    bundles-resolver-config:
      default-service-account: pipelines
    cluster-resolver-config:
      default-namespace: test
    git-resolver-config:
      server-url: localhost.com
    hub-resolver-config: 
      default-tekton-hub-catalog: tekton
...
----

[id="chains-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== {tekton-chains}

:FeatureName: Tekton Chains
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> * Before this update, only Open Container Initiative (OCI) images were supported as outputs of `TaskRun` in in-toto provenance agent. This update adds in-toto provenance metadata as outputs with these suffixes, ARTIFACT_URI and ARTIFACT_DIGEST.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, only Open Container Initiative (OCI) images were supported as outputs of `TaskRun` in the in-toto provenance agent. This update adds in-toto provenance metadata as outputs with these suffixes, `ARTIFACT_URI` and `ARTIFACT_DIGEST`.
```

* Before this update, only `TaskRun` attestations were supported. This update adds support for `PipelineRun` attestations as well. 

* This update adds support for {tekton-chains} to get the `imgPullSecret` parameter from the pod template. This update helps you to configure repository authentication based on each pipeline run or task run without modifying the service account.

[id="tekton-hub-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== {tekton-hub}

:FeatureName: {tekton-hub}
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

* With this update, as an administrator, you can use an external database, such as Crunchy PostgreSQL with {tekton-hub}, instead of using the default {tekton-hub} database. This update helps you to perform the following actions:
** Specify the coordinates of an external database to be used with {tekton-hub}
** Disable the default {tekton-hub} database deployed by the Operator

* This update removes the dependency of `config.yaml` from external Git repositories and moves the complete configuration data into the API `ConfigMap`. This update helps an administrator to perform the following actions:

> ** Add the configuration data, such as categories, catalogs, scopes and defaultScopes in the {tekton-hub} custom resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** Add the configuration data, such as categories, catalogs, scopes, and defaultScopes in the {tekton-hub} custom resource.
```

** Modify {tekton-hub} configuration data on the cluster. All modifications are preserved upon Operator upgrades.
** Update the list of catalogs for {tekton-hub}
** Change the categories for {tekton-hub}
+ 
[NOTE]
====
If you do not add any configuration data, you can use the default data in the API `ConfigMap` for {tekton-hub} configurations.
====

[id="pac-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== {pac}

* This update adds support for concurrency limit in the `Repository` CRD to define the maximum number of `PipelineRuns` running for a repository at a time. The `PipelineRuns` from a pull request or a push event are queued in alphabetical order.

* This update adds a new command `tkn pac logs` for showing the logs of the latest pipeline run for a repository.

> * This update supports advanced event matching on file path for push and pull requests to GitHub and GitLab. For example, you can use the Common Expression Language (CEL) to run a pipeline only if a path has changed and match each markdown file only in the `docs` directory. 

Reviewer 3: "if a path has changed for any markdown file in the docs directory" maybe? if feels a bit awkward as-is

** `tkn-pac webhook add`: Adds a webhook to project repository settings and updates the `webhook.secret` key in the existing `k8s Secret` object without updating the repository. 
** `tkn-pac webhook update-token`: Updates provider token for an existing `k8s Secret` object without updating the repository.

* This update enhances functionality of the `tkn-pac create repo` command, which creates and configures webhooks for GitHub, GitLab, and BitbucketCloud along with creating repositories. 

* With this update, the `tkn-pac describe` command shows the latest fifty events in a sorted order.

* This update adds the `--last` option to the `tkn-pac logs` command.

* With this update, the `tkn-pac resolve` command prompts for a token on detecting a `git_auth_secret` in the file template.

* With this update, {pac} hides secrets from log snippets to avoid exposing secrets in the GitHub interface.

* With this update, the secrets automatically generated for `git_auth_secret` are an owner reference with `PipelineRun`. The secrets get cleaned with the `PipelineRun`, not after the pipeline run execution. 

* This update adds support to cancel a pipeline run with the `/cancel` comment.

> * Before this update, the GitHub apps token scoping were not defined and tokens would be used on every repository installation. With this update, you can scope the GitHub apps token to the target repository using the following parameters:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the GitHub apps token scoping was not defined and tokens would be used on every repository installation. With this update, you can scope the GitHub apps token to the target repository using the following parameters:
```

** `secret-github-app-token-scoped`: Scopes the app token to the target repository, not to every repository the app installation has access to.
** `secret-github-app-scope-extra-repos`: Customizes the scoping of the  app token with an additional owner or repository.

* With this update, you can use {pac} with your own Git repositories that are hosted on GitLab. 
 

> * With this update, you can access pipeline execution details in the form of k8s events in your namespace. These details help you to troubleshoot pipeline errors without needing access to admin namespaces.

Reviewer 3: either tick k8s, or replace with kubernetes - probably the latter is better

* This update supports authentication of URLs in the {pac} resolver with the Git provider. 

* With this update, you can set the name of the hub catalog by using a setting in the `pipelines-as-code` config map.

* With this update, you can set the maximum and default limits for the `max-keep-run` parameter. 

* This update adds documents on how to inject custom Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates in {pac} to let you connect to provider instance with custom certificates.

> * With this update, the `PipelineRun` resource definition has the log URL included as annotation. For example, the `tkn-pac describe` command shows the log link when describing a `PipelineRun`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* With this update, the `PipelineRun` resource definition has the log URL included as an annotation. For example, the `tkn-pac describe` command shows the log link when describing a `PipelineRun`.
```

* With this update, you can add variables in the `steps[].onError` event handler, for example, `$(params.CONTINUE)`.

* With this update, you can use the output from the `finally` task in the `PipelineResults` definition. For example, `$(finally.<pipelinetask-name>.result.<result-name>)`, where `<pipelinetask-name>` denotes the pipeline task name and `<result-name>` denotes the result name.

* This update supports task-level resource requirements for a task run.

* With this update, you do not need to recreate parameters that are shared based on their name between a pipeline and the defined tasks. This update is part of an alpha preview feature.

* This update adds support for remote resolution, such as built-in git, cluster, bundle, and hub resolvers.

[id="triggers-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== Triggers

* This update adds the `Interceptor` CRD to define `NamespacedInterceptor`. You can use `NamespacedInterceptor` in the kind section of interceptors reference in triggers or in the `EventListener` specification.

> * This update enables `CloudEvents`, which do not explicitly require the stable API feature during trigger processing.

Reviewer 7: The trigger looks fine to me. I don't think we need ``which do not explicitly require the stable API feature during trigger processing.``

Author: Removed

* With this update, you can configure the webhook port number when defining a trigger.

* This update supports trigger `eventID` to be used as input to `TriggerBinding`.

* This update supports validation and rotation of certificates for the `ClusterInterceptor` server. 
** Triggers perform certificate validation for core interceptors and rotate a new certificate to `ClusterInterceptor` when its certificate expires. 

[id="cli-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== CLI 

* This update supports showing annotations in the `describe` command.

* This update supports showing pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pr describe` command.

* This update adds flags to provide pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pipeline start` command.

* This update supports showing the presence of workspace, optional or mandatory, in the `describe` command of a task and pipeline.

* This update adds the `timestamps` flag to show logs with a timestamp.

* This update adds a new flag `--ignore-running-pipelinerun`, which ignores the deletion of `TaskRun` associated with `PipelineRun`.

> * This update adds the `qps` and `bursts` parameters to configure the k8s API server.

Reviewer 8: this we can remove, not anything user can do

Author: Incorporate this suggestion. Please provide an ACK over the PR.

** Disable the default {tekton-hub} database deployed by the Operator

* This update removes the dependency of `config.yaml` from external Git repositories and moves the complete configuration data into the API `ConfigMap`. This update helps an administrator to perform the following actions:
** Add the configuration data, such as categories, catalogs, scopes and defaultScopes in the {tekton-hub} custom resource.
** Modify {tekton-hub} configuration data on the cluster. All modifications are preserved upon Operator upgrades.
** Update the list of catalogs for {tekton-hub}
** Change the categories for {tekton-hub}
+ 
[NOTE]
====
If you do not add any configuration data, you can use the default data in the API `ConfigMap` for {tekton-hub} configurations.
====

[id="pac-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== {pac}

* This update adds support for concurrency limit in the `Repository` CRD to define the maximum number of `PipelineRuns` running for a repository at a time. The `PipelineRuns` from a pull request or a push event are queued in alphabetical order.

* This update adds a new command `tkn pac logs` for showing the logs of the latest pipeline run for a repository.

> * With this update, you can modify {pac} configurations in the `TektonConfig` CRD.

Reviewer 2: This should be part of Operator section i feel :thinking: because PAC doesn't have any `TektonConfig` CRD 
cc @chmouel @sm43

Reviewer 2: So adding it to Operator section just after this https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/54491/files#diff-47dac456c0d7ba50140f46956d4d6d40b4b47084258f26de0646210263a6227fR84 would be more clear

Author: @savitaashture Incorporated your suggestions. Please have a look at the updated PR.

* This update enhances functionality of the `tkn-pac create repo` command, which creates and configures webhooks for GitHub, GitLab, and BitbucketCloud along with creating repositories. 

* With this update, the `tkn-pac describe` command shows the latest fifty events in a sorted order.

* This update adds the `--last` option to the `tkn-pac logs` command.

* With this update, the `tkn-pac resolve` command prompts for a token on detecting a `git_auth_secret` in the file template.

* With this update, {pac} hides secrets from log snippets to avoid exposing secrets during a pipeline run.

* With this update, the secrets automatically generated for `git_auth_secret` are an owner reference with `PipelineRun`. The secrets get cleaned with the `PipelineRun`, not after the pipeline run execution. 

* This update adds support to cancel a pipeline run with the `/cancel` comment.

* Before this update, the GitHub apps token scoping were not defined and tokens would be used on every repository installation. With this update, you can scope the GitHub apps token to the target repository using the following parameters:

> ** `secret-github-app-token-scopped`: Scopes the app token to the target repository, not to every repository the app installation has access to.

Reviewer 5: typo in `scopped`?

Reviewer: you are right this was fixed in latest release in this commit https://github.com/openshift-pipelines/pipelines-as-code/commit/603a5aa165cfa7953899a5d39c3b384b5e976b7d but we need to adjust the release note and change scopped by "scoped"

Author: Incorporated @ppitonak

* With this update, {pac} optionally can detect errors inside the tasks if they are of a simple format and add those tasks as annotations in GitHub. This update is part of an alpha preview feature.

* This update adds the following new commands:
** `tkn-pac webhook add`: Adds a webhook to project repository settings and updates the `webhook.secret` key in the existing `k8s Secret` object without updating the repository. 
** `tkn-pac webhook update-token`: Updates provider token for an existing `k8s Secret` object without updating the repository.

* This update enhances functionality of the `tkn-pac create repo` command, which creates and configures webhooks for GitHub, GitLab, and BitbucketCloud along with creating repositories. 

* With this update, the `tkn-pac describe` command shows the latest fifty events in a sorted order.

* This update adds the `--last` option to the `tkn-pac logs` command.

* With this update, the `tkn-pac resolve` command prompts for a token on detecting a `git_auth_secret` in the file template.

> * With this update, {pac} hides secrets from log snippets to avoid exposing secrets during a pipeline run.

Reviewer 5: We should clarify that it's about log snippets in GitHub UI, not pipeline run logs

Author: Incorporated. Please have a look at the updated RN.

* With this update, you do not need to recreate parameters that are shared based on their name between a pipeline and the defined tasks. This update is part of an alpha preview feature.

* This update adds support for remote resolution, such as built-in git, cluster, bundle, and hub resolvers.

[id="triggers-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== Triggers

* This update adds the `Interceptor` custom resource definition to define `NamespacedInterceptor`. You can use `NamespacedInterceptor` in the kind section of interceptors reference in triggers or in the `EventListener` specification.

* This update enables `CloudEvents`, which do not explicitly require the stable API feature during trigger processing.

* With this update, you can configure the webhook port number when defining a trigger.

* This update supports trigger `eventID` to be used as input to `TriggerBinding`.

* This update supports validation and rotation of certificates for the `ClusterInterceptor` server. 
** Triggers perform certificate validation for core interceptors and rotate a new certificate to `ClusterInterceptor` when its certificate expires. 

[id="cli-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== CLI

> * This update adds support for a pipeline run with minimal embedded status. 

Reviewer 8: this we can remove, i dont think anything related to use facing here

* This update supports showing annotations in the `describe` command.

* This update supports showing pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pr describe` command.

* This update adds flags to provide pipeline, tasks, and finally timeout in the `pipeline start` command.

> * This update adds the status of workspaces in the `describe` command of a task and pipeline.

Reviewer 8: this line needs to be modified a bit

` this update now shows whether the workspace is optional or not in describe command of task and pipeline`

something like this, there is no status of workspace. It just shows whther the workspace is optional or not

* This update adds the `timestamps` flag to show logs with a timestamp.

* This update adds a new flag `--ignore-running-pipelinerun`, which ignores the deletion of `TaskRun` associated with `PipelineRun`.

> * With this update, you can use the parameters `qps` and `bursts` to configure the Tekton controller performance.

Reviewer 8: this is hardcoded, not configurable, and it is for k8s api server not controller

* This update adds support for {tekton-chains} to get the `imgPullSecret` parameter from the pod template. This update helps you to configure repository authentication based on each pipeline run or task run without modifying the service account.

[id="tekton-hub-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== {tekton-hub}

:FeatureName: {tekton-hub}
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

* With this update, as an administrator, you can use an external database, such as Crunchy PostgreSQL with {tekton-hub}, instead of using the default {tekton-hub} database. This update helps you to perform the following actions:
** Specify the coordinates of an external database to be used with {tekton-hub}
** Disable the default {tekton-hub} database deployed by the Operator

* This update removes the dependency of `config.yaml` from external Git repositories and moves the complete configuration data into the API ConfigMap. This update helps an administrator to perform the following actions:
** Add the configuration data, such as categories, catalogs, scopes and defaultScopes in the {tekton-hub} custom resource.

> ** Modify {tekton-hub} configuration on the cluster. All modifications are preserved upon Operator upgrades.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
** Modify {tekton-hub} configuration data on the cluster. All modifications are preserved upon Operator upgrades.
```

Author: Incorporated this suggestion

** Update the list of catalogs for {tekton-hub}
** Change the categories for {tekton-hub}
+ 
[NOTE]
====
If you do not add any configuration data, you can use the default data in the API ConfigMap for {tekton-hub} configurations.
====

[id="pac-new-features-1-9_{context}"]
=== {pac}

> * This update supports concurrency limit in the repository CRD to define the maximum number of `PipelineRuns` for a repository at a time. This update also enhances the `PipelineRun` concurrency to execute pipelines in alphabetical order instead of random.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* This update adds support for concurrency limit in the Repository CRD to define the maximum number of `PipelineRuns` running for a repository at a time. The `PipelineRuns` from a pull request or a push event are queued in alphabetical order.
```

this is a new feature, was not there before.

* This update adds a new command `tkn pac logs` for showing the logs of the latest pipeline run for a repository.

> * Before this update, the {pac} controller required to restart to take configuration changes into account. With this update, the {pac} controller takes changes into account based on the `pipelines-as-code` configmap.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```
we can remove this. earlier user was not allowed provide configurations.

we can add a new point..

```
* With this update, user can change Pipelines As Code configurations through TektonConfig CR.
```

* This update supports advanced event matching on file path for push and pull requests to GitHub and GitLab. For example, you can use the Common Expression Language (CEL) to run a pipeline only if a path has changed and match each markdown file only in the `docs` directory. 
+
[source,yaml]
----
  ...
  annotations:
     pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
      event == "pull_request" && "docs/*.md".pathChanged()
----

> * This update adds a new driver to support the Gitea software package.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

```

Author: Removed this point

* With this update, you can reference a remote pipeline in the `pipelineRef:` object using annotations.

> * With this update, you can auto-configure new GitHub repositories with {pac}, which sets up a namespace and creates a custom resource for your repository.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can auto-configure new GitHub repositories with {pac}, which sets up a namespace and creates a Repository CR for your GitHub repository.
```

> * This update provides metrics for pipeline runs with provider information in the user namespace.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* With this update Pipelines as Code emits metrics for PipelineRuns with provider information.
```

Author: can we use `generate` or `provide` in place of `emits`, which sounds more like something is discharged (not a suitable term)?

* With this update, the secrets automatically generated for `git_auth_secret` are an owner reference with `PipelineRun`. The secrets get cleaned with the `PipelineRun`, not after the pipeline run execution. 

* This update adds support to cancel a pipeline run with the `/cancel` comment.

* Before this update, the GitHub apps token scoping were not defined and tokens would be used on every repository installation. With this update, you can scope the GitHub apps token to the target repository using the following parameters:
** `secret-github-app-token-scoped`: Scopes the app token to the target repository, not to every repository the app installation has access to.
** `secret-github-app-scope-extra-repos`: Customizes the scoping of the  app token with an additional owner or repository.

* With this update, you can use {pac} with your own Git repositories that are hosted on GitLab. 
 
* With this update, you can access pipeline execution details in the form of k8s events in your namespace. These details help you to troubleshoot pipeline errors without needing access to admin namespaces.

* This update supports authentication of URLs in the {pac} resolver with the Git provider.

> * This update adds new flow diagrams of PAC and concurrency into the documentation. 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion

```

Author: deleted

> * With this update, you can set the name of the hub catalog using a setting in the global `configmap`. 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can set the name of the hub catalog using a setting in the pipelines-as-code configmap which can be updated through TektonConfig CR 
```

Author: Can we write: you can set the name of the hub catalog by using a setting in the `pipelines-as-code` configmap of the `TektonConfig` CRD.  (if `pipelines-as-code` configmap is part of the `TektonConfig` CRD)?

the current suggestion makes it a loopy sentence, we ask user to do something, for which the user again needs to do something else.

Reviewer 10: `With this update, you can set the name of the hub catalog using a setting in the `pipelines-as-code` configmap.`

let's have this.
in operator section we have mentioned the Pipelines As Code configurations can be done through TektonConfig.

Author: Done
